A lot of product teams, a lot of
founders build something, it starts to
show some success and then all of a
sudden it just stops growing.
>> There's a series of questions that I ask
to diagnose why is growth slowing. The
first question is, are customers
leaving? Think about the gauntlet they
went through to get to the product. How
do they even find out about me? That was
hard already and improbable. They didn't
just bounce off the homepage, which is
again improbable. And they got to the
pricing page that didn't scare them off.
They actually had the budget and bought
the stupid thing. And after all of that,
which clearly means they wanted it to
work, they're like, "No, buy what?"
Like, like just on an emotional level,
you got to go, "Wait a minute, that's
terrible."
>> Step two is pricing positioning.
>> Your prices are way too low because you
just guessed and you haven't changed
them. What often happens is you raise
prices and signups don't change. Just
think about a company with a,000
employees and 400 million in revenue or
whatever. If they see a product that's
$2 a month or even $100 a month, thought
is like, "That can't be good enough." We
position this conversation as how to
deal with stalled growth, but it's
actually just as useful for how do I
grow more?
>> Do you know right now which channels are
saturated and which aren't? You can't
just rely on marketing forever. Just
adding one little feature and then
hoping we can flog Adwords is not going
to work.
>> What comes next?
>> The last question is, do you need to
grow? We all have heard the phrase, if
you're not growing, you're dying. Is
that true or is that the kind of thing
that investors use to make founders try
to grow even when they shouldn't?
>> Today my guest is Jason Cohen. Jason is
a four-time founder, including two
unicorns, one being WP Engine. He's not
just an incredible builder and
entrepreneur. He's also an incredible
writer and share of product wisdom. He's
been sharing his advice online for over
20 years now. I've been a huge fan of
Jason's from afar for so long, and it
was such a treat to have him on the
podcast. There are a million things we
could have talked about. I'm definitely
going to have him back. In this
conversation, we spent the entire time
talking about his very actionable and a
very helpful framework for what to do
when your product's growth stalls. I
found his way of looking at the problem
incredibly practical and real and
actionable. And if you're looking for
ideas for how to rekindle your product's
growth or just accelerate the growth of
your product, you're going to walk away
from this conversation with your mind
buzzing. Also, I'll add that after 20
years of blogging online, Jason is about
to publish his very first real book.
It's called Hidden Multipliers. You can
now pre-order it online at hidden
multipliers.com.
I am going to grab a bunch. I bet after
listening to this conversation, you will
too. If you enjoy this podcast, don't
forget to subscribe and follow it in
your favorite podcasting app or YouTube.
And if you become an insider subscriber
of my newsletter, you get a year free of
over 20 incredible products, including a
year free of lovable, repid bolt, gamma,
naden, linear, devon, post talk,
superhuman, dcript, whisper flow,
perplexity, warp, granola, magic
pattern, drag cast, de mo, and stripe
atlas. Head on over to Lenny's.com and
click product pass. With that, I bring
you Jason Cohen after a short word from
our sponsors. This episode is brought to
you by Tene Webb, the company that
pioneered AI website building before
ChatgPT. In the last 3 years, over 2
million websites have been generated
with Tenweb's VIP coding platform.
Tenweb's VIP coding platform is a
powerful way to build websites. Think of
it as lovable for WordPress front end
and backend. Users can build any website
at any complexity. E-commerce
portfolios, information websites, blogs,
and it comes with the WordPress admin
panel and thousands of readytouse
plugins. Tenweb also offers website
generation as an API as a service for
SAS companies, marketplaces, hosting
providers, MSPs, and agencies. SAS
companies can embed it via API so that
users can launch AI generated sites
directly inside of their platform
connected to their own data. Agencies
and MSPs can get a white label dashboard
to manage clients and resell under their
brand. Hosting providers can self-host
the API builder on their own
infrastructure. Check it out at
10web.io/lenny
and use code lenny for exclusive free
credits and 30% off API or white labeled
solutions. That's the number 10
web.io/lenny.
Vipcoding platform as an API.
This episode is brought to you by
Stella, the customer research platform
built for the AI era. Here's the truth
about user research. It's never been
more important or more painful. Teams
want to understand why customers do what
they do. But recruiting users, running
interviews, and analyzing insights takes
weeks. By the time the results are in,
the moment to act has passed. Strella
changes that. It's the first platform
that uses AI to run and analyze in-depth
interviews automatically, bringing fast
and continuous user research to every
team. Strella's AI moderator asks real
follow-up questions, probing deeper when
answers are vague, and services patterns
across hundreds of conversations, all in
a few hours, not weeks. Product design
and research teams at companies like
Amazon and Dualingo are already using
Stella for Figma prototype testing,
concept validation, and customer journey
research, getting insights overnight
instead of waiting for the next sprint.
If your team wants to understand
customers at the speed you ship
products, try Strella. Run your next
study at strea.io/enny.
That's str.io/lenny.
Jason, thank you so much for being here
and welcome to the podcast.
>> Thank you. It's an honor to be here.
>> It's an honor to have you here. I have
wanted to get you on this podcast for so
long. You are both an incredible builder
and a founder and you are such a great
communicator. You have been writing at
uh a smartbear.com which I want to get
the backstory on for so long. How long
have you been writing uh there by the
way?
>> Almost 20 years. I started when blogging
was cool and I'm still I'm waiting for
blogging to come back and be cool again
but it's not yet.
>> I think it is cool when newsletters are
cool now. Yeah,
>> newsletters are cool.
>> I don't know if you saw Twitter now is
encouraging long form writing. There's
like this articles feature. So I think
it's cool. I think you've survived the
>> rough. Okay.
>> Uh I was also talking to Gemini trying
to figure out how many posts you've
written. I was like count the number of
blog posts on a smartbear.com. How many
do you have a sense of how many things
you've written on there?
>> Yeah, it's not that many. Uh it's
something like maybeund well I would say
between 150 and 200 that I'm proud of
and probably about 300 350 and that's it
over you know about 18 years and that's
because I only write uh in depth some
are long not all are long but none are
short I guess and um I I've always had a
rule even though you're supposed to
write really regularly and not just for
algorithms but they used to say again
back in the as where I started oh yeah
it needs to be like really regular so
people know when to expect your thing
and they they plug it into their day and
all this. So, it's always been true that
you should be that you should be regular
and I never was because my attitude was
was always I will only put out stuff if
if it's the best that I can do. It's up
to the reader to decide if it's good or
useful. Um, and if so, if I don't have
that, I'm just not going to publish.
That's the way it is. And so, there's
years where I've published once or twice
only the whole year. Maybe I was busy or
didn't have the energy. other years were
yeah I posted you know 40 times or
something but even then it's only that
because I can't I can't do something of
that magnitude and also found unicorns
which I did during that same time and
run them you know I can't do that all at
the same time um and produce a lot so
it's fewer and hopefully better but
that's in the eye of the reader of
course
>> I like when you say I've I've done 300
not too many
>> well not for 18 years that right like
over that time you
>> but I think this actually this is where
I was going to go but I think this is a
really important lesson I've also
learned I always used to tell people the
the key to being successful writing
stuff online and just content in general
is quality and consistency. But I've
just more and more realized quality is
actually the only thing that matters and
the consistency doesn't matter. So the
only difference is like the more rarely
you write the more awesome it has to be.
It is a lot of pressure. I feel that and
then I tell myself you that will just
prevent you from writing anything and
that's not good. So yeah, you tend to
want every thing you make to be the best
thing you've ever made. And on the one
hand, I want to hold on to that because
it its motivation to be good and not to
let the bar slip. On the other hand, it
can go into paralysis, which is
obviously bad. So yeah, I still struggle
with that, but I think that's that is
the tension.
>> Okay, so with 300ish posts, 200 you're
proud of, there are so many directions
we can go. There's a few that I've
picked that I want to spend most of our
time on. The first is you have a really
pragmatic way of approaching uh growth
stalling. And the reason I want to spend
time here is because a lot of product
teams, a lot of founders build
something, it starts to show some
success there. It's it's going, it's
growing, and then all a sudden it just
stops growing. And I think that's one of
the most painful things to go through.
And there's never I've never come across
a a way to think about how do I solve
this because I think a lot of people are
just like, okay, I guess that is not
working. Let's move on to something
else. you have a very specific way of
approaching this problem and I want to I
want to read actually a quote from Will
Smith and this is something that has
stuck with me ever since I read it
because it's so true. So in his
biography he has this line. People ask
him what's it like to be famous and his
answer is becoming famous is amazing.
Being famous is a mixed bag. Losing fame
is miserable.
>> That's funny. So first of all, I think a
lot of people are experiencing this
right now. You have a lot of companies
have reasonable products and they've
they've their growth has slowed. Why?
Could be the economy because it's not as
good as a lot of indicators say. We all
know that for example jobs are not as
good as the indicators say. It could be
because AI or the threat of AI or the
expectation of the of AI blah blah blah.
Who knows? It also can just be size. As
you get bigger, growth slows because you
know what? You're not going to grow 2x a
year forever. So it slows. um there's
like just mechanical things. So there's
many reasons why things slow and
sometimes it's all of a sudden although
then maybe there's some event like an
algorithm changes or you know something
happens but actually I think what's
really common is it just slowly gets
slower. In other words, it decelerates
but just it it kind of I don't I
wouldn't say sneaks up on you because
most people are looking at growth all
the time. So, it's not sneaky, but it is
it is sort of um uh a little bit more
gradual, right? Just like you just feel
more like you're running through mud,
like ah god, we're just still doing so
much work and it's not having as much of
an impact. And so, um that's what I see.
And when I say that's what I see, so
I've built four companies. The last one
is a unicorn. The one before that was
also a unicorn. The boot the the
previous one was bootstrap. This one was
VC funded. And I've invested in about 60
startups. Some of them failed
completely. Some of them were very
successful, some in the middle cuz of
course, right? Um, and uh, so when I say
that's what I've seen, this is that's
the the context of what I mean by what
I've seen. So there's a there's I
wouldn't say a checklist, but there's a
there's a series of of questions that I
ask to to diagnose why is growth slowing
in this order because it's one of these
things where the first one that's a
problem, if you don't fix that, it
doesn't matter if you fix one of the
ones below. Um, just like if I don't
know, maybe if you had a marketing
funnel and there's a step where
everything falls apart and you're like,
well, I'll I'll just uh tune the bottom
of it a little. It's like that's not
going to work. It's not going to help
enough like you got to you got to go
where the biggest issue is. So, this is
in that sort of order.
So, the first question is uh is are
customers leaving? I.e. logo churn,
right? Churn with N. You can do churn
with MR2, but just for simplicity, let's
say uh let's say with customers and it's
the worst problem for a couple reasons.
One is there's nothing you can do about
it once it happens. Like they're gone.
There's no saving them, increasing their
revenue. Like there there's nothing in
the future you can do. Also, it's often
correlated with things like negative
reviews or other things on social media,
which is another kind of preventing
growth. So, it's kind of the two two a
two punch thing of like they're not here
and they may be like actively hurting
your growth. So, that sucks. The math is
undeniable, which I want to talk about
because this is something where there's
a metric I like that is unusual and um
people find uh useful. But before I get
to the metric, there's also this kind of
visceral thing which is the customers
saying this product I don't want it. And
when I think about the gauntlet they got
they went through to get to the product,
they how do they even find out about me?
That was hard already and improbable
that they see an ad or hear it and then
they clicked which is improbable and
then they they didn't just bounce off
the homepage which is again improbable.
They actually were like oh yeah this
sounds pretty good and then they got to
the pricing page and that didn't scare
them off. They actually had the budget
and bought the stupid thing. Then they
went through onboarding and invested
their time etc etc. That is a crazy
gauntlet that almost no one gets
through. And after all of that which
clearly means they wanted it to work.
They're like, "No, bye. What?" Like,
like just on a just on an emotional
level, you gotta go, "Wait a minute,
that's terrible. I'm I'm fundamentally
not fulfilling whatever promise I made
or they thought I made, which is whether
that's a product issue or a
communication issue." Okay? Like there's
lots of But one way or another, like
something is really fundamentally broken
just in terms of like I'm a product
person. So, what I want to do is make a
product that other people want to buy
and use. And if they don't, like no
matter what the metrics say, I'm, you
know, I'm a I'm we're failing our
mission, our customers, whatever. So
there's just even that non-mmathematical
reason to go, oh my god. Right? So uh so
to me that's already enough reason, but
the the the math is very interesting.
And what I find is when I talk to
people, especially on Twitter or
something where people are just, you
know, yapping around whatever they're
doing, you you say thing I say things
like, you know, anything above 3% per
month cancellation is is is terrible.
And people like, oh no, it's okay. Five
is fine, seven, six. Everyone's yapping
about what they and it's very abstract
like who is four better much worse than
five? Like I don't know. And I heard
someone else and blah blah blah. So it's
very um I don't know like like generic
and rough. So there's a different metric
that I like to use which is uh- which
which um which keys off of this idea
that I think again people uh don't
appreciate which is cancellations grow
faster than marketing and so
cancellations overpower the growth of
the company and slow it to a halt i.e.
growth slows right to where you
literally cannot grow anymore. there's a
maximum ceiling of how big you could
ever be thanks to cancellations. And
when you know what that number is, it's
much more real and visceral and scary.
And so, just to kind of justify what I
just said, just imagine any company and
imagine you just tripled the number of
customers that are there and paying and
the same kind, the same age, you know,
just the same kind of stuff just
tripled, right, overnight.
So, the next month, would marketing
deliver more new customers than a month
before? No, because marketing doesn't it
none of your marketing efforts care how
many customers you have. Adwords
delivers the same number of leads and
you know SEO delivers the same like it
does not care how big you are these
these these efforts. So you're you're
you're still going to be growing at the
same rate as you were the previous
month, but cancellations in absolute
terms like the number of customers who
leave will triple cuz you have 5%
cancellation and triple. Okay, so still
5% of a tripled number is triple, right?
Like so this is the point is that
cancellations automatically grow as you
grow. Even if you're doing everything
right, but marketing doesn't. Marketing
grows only as fast as you can improve
marketing. We all know that's quite hard
actually. It's linear. It's hard to find
new channels that aren't trivial. Like,
it's hard. Of course, we're going to do
it, but like it it's hard. Whereas,
cancellations grow automatically as you
grow, right? So, cancellations always
overtake marketing for this reason.
>> Like the metaphor here is a leaky bucket
where are you adding enough water to
keep up with the leak essentially,
>> right? Except the leaks automatically
increase and that's what people don't
appreciate.
>> Because it's a percentage of your entire
customer base.
>> Yes. See, we say when in marketing we
say things like um I'm adding 100 leads
a month, but in cancellations we say 5%.
Why do you say percent? Because it's
based on your size and it's exponential.
That's what 5% is an exponential. And
and so there's this maximum size you
could ever be. It's when churn equals
growth, right? Like that's that's the m
So how would you compute that? It's
actually quite simple because let's say
you have this 5% per month just as a
number. So it's simply the amount of new
customers you add divided by that
cancellation rate. That is the amount
that that is the limit. So let's suppose
you add 100 customers a month and you
have 5% cancellation. So 100 divided by
5% is 2,000. So a company like that will
never have more than 2,000 customers.
And by the way as you approach that
number growth is very slow because you
bring in a bunch of customers and almost
the same number leave. So growth is
slowing. Ah, look, we diagnosed why go
slows automatically at all SAS
companies. So that's is why this is the
first thing because it's so it's such a
hard cap limit and it means that people
don't want your product. Like these are
two reasons why it's the most important
thing.
>> Just to clarify, this is logo churn.
This is like number of customers, not
revenue churn.
>> Yeah. Well, it is both logo churn and
revenue churn. You do the same math. You
could say dollars in divided by dollars
cancellation rate or number of co I've
been saying number of customers just to
keep it simple because I think when when
you look at it and say wow we will never
have more than 2,000 customers. It's
just such a like a like a visceral oh my
god we had to do something about that.
Now of course one thing you could do is
have more marketing but you know that
already if growth is slowing you're
already thinking how do I get more out
of marketing. You knew that. The point
is that cancellation is this hard limit
pulling you down with all these other
really bad either implications or side
effects which is why it's so important.
>> Cool. And when you say marketing, just
to clarify, this includes basically all
growth work, PLG stuff, marketing,
sales.
>> Y right.
>> Great.
>> Yeah. PLG is nice, but that doesn't you
still need marketing to bring the people
in in the first place. PLG just means
there's not a salesperson unless you're
expanding or some other segment.
>> Cool. Yeah. It's like the whole bucket
of just bringing new customers in.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> So, okay. So assuming you agree like,
"Yeah, I don't like customers leaving.
That sucks." Um, so obviously you got to
find out why they're canceling and do
something about it. And the the the kind
of root issue here is they don't want to
tell you like they're already out the
door. They've already like stopped
investing in you like mentally. So the
last thing they want to do is spend time
with you or like really think about it
and diagnose it with you. And uh I have
a funny story about this for myself. So
um at Smart Bear, people would cancel.
We put up this uh form and and uh a
drop-own list, you know, too expensive,
it's project ended, you know, this stuff
like we do so we could gather data and
um one of them did have more uh more
selection than than the rest. And I
realized it was the first one on the
list and I thought, huh, I wonder if
people are just picking the first one.
So then then we randomized the list so
everyone saw a different order of the
list and now all the items were picked
equally like, oh, right, it's complete
noise. And uh I know other companies
have done similar things also with the
similar results that this is this is a
global phenomenon. So okay so what do
you do like the point is it's hard
right? So the first thing is you want to
ask open-ended questions. I I know it's
you want to just get a list but this is
the problem. At least with open-ended
questions most people won't answer but
at least you might be able to get some
kind of thing that they generated. And
when you do this the the wrong way is to
ask why did you cancel? Because again,
this allows them to say something really
simple like budget, which may or may not
be true. I'll get to that in a second.
What you want to do is say what made you
cancel?
In other words, what about the product
or situation or whatever caused the
cancellation? Just phrasing it that way,
you get much better results. And I stole
this from a company called Groove, who
has this great case study online about
this very thing. They had an email that
they sent out, which is a very a great
email. and um and they started by asking
why did you cancel? They got 10% usable
responses. They changed it same email to
why what made you cancel and it's 20%
usable responses. So this is this is
there's like I guess maybe some anecd
as as far as you can into there because
most people won't talk. The temptation
is to hear what they generate at first
and say that's the answer. So like a
really common one is it's too expensive.
I think anyone who's looked at
cancellation data at any company will
agree that too expensive is often the
number one or at least like top three
reason in one form or another. And that
is never ever ever the reason.
How do I know? Because they already
looked at your homepage, read all the
stuff, saw what you promised, looked at
the pricing page, and decided to buy it.
That means it whatever was in their mind
of what it is is not too expensive. It
was they already decided with their
actions. It was not too expensive.
Something else happened like but you
didn't fulfill the promise that at least
they thought you made or something else
didn't work or you know now it is
possible they lost budget but that
doesn't mean you're too expensive. That
means they lost budget. That's a very
different reason, right? That's not that
you're So it's sort of like um this
happens in um in healthc care for
example. So when someone dies the doctor
has to write the what's called
approximate cause which is what why did
they actually die? But then you try to
also write down the real reason. So
let's say someone comes in and they the
approximate cause of death is they stop
breathing.
Well, you could stop there and that's
like listening to it's expensive and
going that's it. Well, why did they stop
breathing? Um because they they had they
they uh ran their car into a telephone
pole and were injured so much that
eventually they stopped breathing. Well,
why did they run their car into a
telephone pole? Because they passed out
at the wheel. Why' they pass out at the
wheel? Cuz they had undiagnosed
diabetes.
Now we're getting somewhere. It still
isn't just one root cause. Another as a
sidebar, I hate the idea of a root
cause. Complex systems do not have one
root cause. They often have many
interlocking things that could be done
to detect earlier or to change it or to
reduce or and not one root cause. So
root cause analysis to me is by the way
an incorrect thing. I'm explaining why
right now with the healthcare, right?
Because well what about the second
diagnosis? Well, maybe part of the
problem is we have a health care system
that isn't preventative and part of it
is that but they didn't go to the doctor
anyway and you know okay so there's all
kinds of things that could be useful and
interesting to prevent this or make it
better. That's the point. That's what an
analysis should be is this array of
things, not the root cause. Anyway,
something along the lines of undiagnosed
diabetes is much more of a cause than
stopped breathing. So, when we say uh
it's too expensive, and that's the
reason you're making this fallacy. You
got to go into well, they wanted this
stuff, but it didn't work with linear,
which is what they use. It only works
with Jira. And so, there's a lack of
integration. Now, maybe we should write
that integration, maybe we shouldn't. Of
course, it depends on how much we hear
about it. And you know of course it's
going to depend on other things but
that's the reason not it was expensive
right and so so this idea of like
getting into not even the root cause but
let's say rooter causes
>> the root
>> yeah the more root um I think some
people probably say five wise and just
paper over what I just said with that
and maybe so but I just you know let's
not be so simplistic about that because
again five Y sometimes implies that
there's some root cause at the bottom of
the wise let's be a little bit more
Let's be a little more smart about that.
So anyway, these things too expensive.
This is not it. Maybe project ended
really is project ended. Okay. But even
there I see just today today on an on a
on an entrepreneur forum on on I am on
someone said um yeah you know uh we're
starting to see more people have project
ended as the reason. And so there's
nothing we can do about that.
Now see that's incorrect. That's only
true if you only look at the approximate
thing which is project ended. You're
correct that you can't make that project
not end. Exactly. Yeah. Okay. But wait a
minute. If your software was more
successful and the project was more
successful, would it have have ended or
is that actually an indicator that your
product wasn't that useful or didn't do
its job? It's possible. Like in this
case, who knows, right? But that's
possible that it really is your fault.
Um, another example is but you picked
what target segments you were going
after. Did you pick like a market
segment that was easier to sell to but
their projects end like small business
and consumers where very often the small
business does go out of business or the
project ends etc because when things are
small they're they're you know have high
variance and lots of things can knock
them off the the path and so on. And so
is it your fault for picking the wrong
ideal customer profile or target
segment? And so yes, that one case of
that one project, it's not your fault,
quote unquote. But by saying that,
you're you're you're just like ignoring
the fact that there is maybe something
to do about it. Now, all this is maybe.
None of this proves you should like
change your market, right? But but the
fact but when you say it's there's
nothing we could do about it, you you
are closing the door on these things
that might be the right thing. And very
often, as I think probably a lot of
people here on this on this listening to
this know, the market segment you pick
has a lot to do with your retention rate
because everyone acts differently,
right? And so anyway, um, so I I know
it's it's a lot on this topic, but I
just feel constantly people make this
particular mistake of not not getting,
you know, not just like abdicating
responsibility or just listening to the
first thing they they hear and saying
that's the reason and that's not right.
So that's that's the big thing about
listening. Another thing is you got to
ask when people are in trouble but not
yet canceled. You might be able to save
them. You certainly can learn more
because you can talk to them like
they're they're not shut off yet from
you. So this might be they never
uploaded their data so they're not being
successful. They are calling tech
support too much. They're in trouble.
They're not calling tech support enough.
You know they they they're not engaged.
um they didn't log in for a while. Like
there's all kinds of things where where
now of course this is all going to the
details are going to depend on the
product obviously but there are signals
that are correlated with cancellation.
Now if you have a lot of data you can
literally correlate signals with
cancellation and try to extract that um
you know you know precisely but even
without data you can guess and guessing
and having a theory acting accordingly
and as you get more data adjusting your
theory this is a this is a wise way to
proceed even without data. So, if you
can catch them when they seem like
they're off the happy path, they're in
trouble, like that's that's a better
time to do it. And then the last thing I
would say about about um about this
detection is if you don't know what to
do or all else being equal, then focus
on onboarding.
Um all almost all companies have a whole
lot more uh cancellation in the first
day, 30 days, 90 days, depends, right?
But the first period than the whole rest
of the customer's life. And also small
changes in the onboarding can have large
effects on cancellation. Whereas later
on that's not necessarily true. It could
be but it's not necessarily true. So uh
a really dramatic version of this is if
you've ever done YouTube videos which I
I mean I know you have but if a listener
has ever done YouTube video and you see
the retention quote unquote of the of
the viewer on a YouTube video, it has
this thing where it it falls like just
so much you can't believe in the first
30 seconds and then if if it's a decent
video, it'll flatten out as people you
know decide to watch the video. So, in
that in that crazy looking curve, for
the people that watch it for 15 minutes,
maybe there's something you could do to
keep a few of them staying to the end,
but that's not going to change very much
how many people get to the end. Whereas,
like for me, I've only done a few, but I
what what I see is about 50% fall off in
the first 30 seconds. Well, if I can get
that from 50% to 55% stay,
um, that's an additional and and at the
end of of the line, I only have 20%
still there, which is pretty good for a
long longer video. But if I get it from
50 to 55, I might get it go from 20 to
25% staying. In other words, if I shift
to 10% at the front, which maybe I could
do, like I can't be dramatic, but maybe
a little, then in the output, I might be
able to increase it by 20 30%.
So that's a huge change. And so in the
SAS equivalent is, as we all know, if
they leave early, not only is it bad,
but it's super unprofitable because you
spent all this money to acquire them and
then they never stayed around long
enough to pay it back, much less to be
profitable. So if you can do a little
bit in the onboarding or shift the
onboarding percentage a little bit, it
pays off enormously in revenue and
profit over time by by uh by making them
successful. And uh so again, if you
don't know what to do, onboarding is is
a good bet. And even if you do know what
to do, I'll I'll still bet that
onboarding is a good bet for where to
go.
>> Oh man, I'm so happy we're spending so
much time on this very specific first
step of logo turnurn because the way you
described it is so visceral. You've
spent it took so much. It's like
impossible how far this customer got
already. Like they are using your
product and understand it
>> mostly and then they still decide to
leave. so brutal the way
>> and you're going to believe them when
they say it's because of the cost,
>> right? Like it just doesn't even make
sense when you put it that way, right?
>> So, let me uh let me kind of uh
summarize the advice you shared here
because this is so good. So, step one is
look at logo churn. The way to
understand and essentially to understand
how big of a problem this is and why you
need to spend time here is uh look at
this basically do the math uh what's how
many new customers you're getting
divided by the cancellation rate and
that essentially tells you what's like
if that doesn't change what's the
maximum number of customers you will
ever have
>> exactly
>> that's going to be a sad number and then
the question is okay cool how do I
reduce the cancellation rate obviously
as you said everyone wants new customers
more new customers
>> yeah and you'll I know you're going to
do that anyway but you got this cap
>> exactly okay so the Okay. So, a few
things you've shared here. One is
instead of asking people in option uh
multiple choice, why did you decide to
cancel? You make it free form and you
make the question, how would you say it?
Was it what made you cancel?
>> What made you cancel?
>> What made you cancel? Great.
>> Yeah.
>> And then you could use AI to help
summarize these things, I imagine,
instead of
>> Yeah. Um I think what I find with AI is
this with this sort of thing with
surveys, um is this
>> AI is good at picking out themes.
>> Yeah. It is bad at picking out details
that are actionable.
>> When I say AI, of course, I mean LLMs,
which is probably what we mean when
we're looking at natural language,
right? Um, and if you think about it, it
sort of makes sense because the LLM is
an averaging machine, right? It's
predicting the most likely that's an
averaging kind of a thing. And so when
what you're looking for is a kind of
average, it's usually pretty good. So,
summarization,
topics, themes. But when you're asking
for like what is interesting and not
average, it's actually pretty bad at it.
One uh one way that I found that's sort
of useful is yes, I'll ask it about
themes, but then I'll say now pick out
every specific detail that goes under
one of these themes, put it along with
like which customer said it and the link
to, you know, blah blah blah. So, you'd
have to, you know, play with this to
tune it, right? But like that kind of
thing so that a human being can then
still see the detail which is what
triggers in your mind. Wait a minute but
that means we should do that right cuz
the topics won't do that. The topics
will be I already know what the topics
will be. It'll be stuff like I couldn't
figure out how to do this this
integration right like the the the
topics are actually not going to be that
surprising probably. It's the details
that are going to be the triggers for
action actionable stuff or patterns or
something like that. So yeah, AI is not
useless, but it's not as useful as it
sounds. It's probably still a good idea
to just read all this stuff. Although AI
might be able to clean up, you know,
maybe people's grammar is bad. It's a
weird language. Okay. Yes. Like that's
annoying. You could clean that up, but I
wouldn't rely on AI to do the thinking
for that reason.
>> That's such such good advice. I actually
have a really cool guest post coming out
soon that gives a bunch of really
specific techniques to avoid AI uh
hallucinating or just giving you really
bad uh results from this very specific
synthesis work because it turns out AI
is very uh not great at actually being
honest about some of the stuff. So
>> we'll link to it if it comes out before
this. And like I think in real life most
people don't have that much the volume
of these cancellations unless it's like
a super consumer app is not that high.
So, you don't even need AF for this.
Just like read it. And then this is a
good segue to your next piece of advice,
which is uh essentially the five W's,
but not the five W's where you kind of
force yourself to dig into what's the
real reason that forced them to cancel.
It's probably not pricing. It's probably
not the project ended. There's something
deeper.
>> Yeah.
>> And then, uh, advice number three is try
to catch people early. Try to catch them
before they turn. If you don't have a
lot of customers, it's a lot easier. If
you have a lot, it's obviously harder.
Uh there's always been this like holy
grail idea of a product that just like
watches metrics and tells you this
person is about to cancel. I see that.
>> What I would say is it's it it is it is
not hard. You don't need a lot of
customers in to to go talk to the ones
who are in trouble.
>> Mhm.
>> You do need a lot of data or customers
to mathematically know what behaviors
are correlated with cancel and therefore
to spend your time wisely. Then you need
a lot more data. But to your point, even
if you have the data, it's not entirely
clear whether some kind of mechanistic
thing is all that important. One way I
look at it is, you know, it's it's very
common advice. You should try to get
more good customers and fewer bad
customers. Of course, you should. And so
therefore, it they say you should see
what the good customers have in common.
But that's not the end of the sentence
because a lot of the things the good
customers have in common, they also have
in common with the bad customers because
it's just what your customers do. just
what anybody does. So, it's what the
good customers have in common that are
different from what the bad customers
have in common.
Okay. So, with that in mind, this kind
of like it has to be both or else you're
you're sort of not getting you're just
getting correlations that are that are
not helpful. Um the cancellations or or
talking to people who are in trouble is
is another application of that. So, what
is correlated with people who actually
end up cancelling, not just what you
know and so um I think that mindset is
is correct. if if you add the other side
of that to it.
>> A really important nuance.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. And then the final step just to
close this out is onboarding. Work on
onboarding activation. Uh something
that's one of the most recurring themes
on this podcast is just the power across
every dimension of improving onboarding.
Improving activation.
>> Yeah.
>> Sweet. Okay. So, this is just step one,
which is already full of gold if your
growth has slowed. So, step one is focus
on or your logo churn, the number of
customers leaving, people leaving,
actually canceling your your product. So
I I kind of look at it like a question.
So like the first question is are are
people leaving it too much? Because if
your if your monthly cancellation is 2%
for SMB, that's good. So you could try
to work on it, but since it's already
good, it's still probably a good idea to
work. It's it's probably a good ROI for
you to work on it, but it's possible
that you're got diminishing returns and
that this isn't really the reason or
it's not really reasonable for it to go.
I mean, how low can it go for SMB? Like
there's some floor and you might be near
it. So the first question is like is is
is logo turn too high and trying to set
a threshold that you know lower than
what people normally want to do. So the
next the next question I have is is the
pricing correct which of course pricing
is a perennially interesting topic. I
know there's this funny thing of uh
especially with newer companies that the
pricing is always too low. It's not
always but like that's the common thing.
Patrick Campbell who has 4,200 data
points about startups. Let that sink in
a little. Um has this great quote which
goes like this. Your prices are way too
low because you just guessed and you
haven't changed them. It's like yeah, if
you really like look look deep within
you realize like yeah or we just picked
whatever our competitors are doing and
and and that's it or we added or
subtracted something because reasons and
right that's probably not good. And
people are scared to raise prices for
obvious reasons. But the but the if we
set aside the emotional reasons whether
they're correct or not, the the sort of
economic reason people normally give is
they have in their mind this e this
microeconomic supply and demand curve
thing. And the demand curve says that if
you raise the price, demand goes down.
That's why demand curve is always going
that way, right? And so they understand,
I think everyone understands, right? But
maybe you raise prices by 10%. But
signups go down only 5%. So overall,
it's better. But the opposite could
happen too if I'm on the other side of
the demand curve. And okay, so that's
that's how most people think of it.
However, this is not how it works.
So that's how it works in microecon
microeconomics 101 textbooks. That's not
how it works in the real world often. So
what usually h what often happens is you
raise prices and signups don't change.
When I say signups, I mean the like
signups per month, you know, the rate at
sign or signups go up.
This happens all the time. Even even for
like soloreneurs on Twitter who have,
you know, strange projects or
everything. Happens all the time. They
raise prices. They're like, I was
scared, but then then sus went up. I
once talked to a guy. This is this is
really funny. I'm not I'm going to not
say the name to protect the protect the
name, right? But but um but uh so he had
a product that was that he was selling
essentially to enterprise and
government, so larger companies. And it
was to me way too cheap. So he said
something like, "Yeah, I charge $300."
I'm like, " $300 a month? That's not
enough." He goes, "No, per year." Like,
"Okay, wait." I said, "Okay, just do me
a f how many signups do you get a week?"
And he's like, "One or two?" Because
this is enterprise and it was a startup.
I said, "Okay, um, just for fun, just
change it from per month, per year to
per month." So, in other words, we're
12xing the price, right?
So he did and he still got one or two
per week. Like nothing changed. I'm
like, "Okay, what what are you going to
do next?" And he goes, "Oh my gosh, well
now I have so much more money and
profits. I'm going to like hire an
engineer. I'm going to do this
marketing." And I'm like, "Time out.
What you're going to do is raise prices
again." Like you just told me you you
12xed the price and nothing observable
changed. That means you're not near the
price yet, right? You're going to you
don't have to 10x it again necessarily.
maybe 2x, maybe 50%, but like you're not
done. I mean, you can do those other
things too, but you're not done with the
price. Like, it didn't even occur to
them still. Okay. So, why does this
happen? Um, the reason is that pricing
selects the market.
So if you only think of the market as
people with very limited budgets, barely
can do anything, not getting much value
out of it, then it is true that if you
raise prices, you'll get fewer of them
because they were never getting that
much value out of it anyway. They don't
have that much money. So if you raise
prices, they're gone. But think about
just even a mid-size company, forget
about enterprise, just think about a
company with a thousand employees and
400 million in revenue or whatever. And
um if they see a product that's, you
know, $2 a month or even $100 a month,
their thought is like, well, that can't
be good enough. They're not mature
enough. It's not going to do enough. The
support's not going to be good enough.
They probably don't have good governance
policies or other things that we need,
you know, etc. Whether that's true or
not, like this is what it looks like is
it's lowquality, cheap, whatever, aimed
at SMB. So, they just won't buy. They're
not in the market for the thing. So it's
not true that they have this demand
curve where oh since it's cheap they all
want it. That's what that's what micro
economics curve says. It's so cheap that
they should all want it. No, they don't.
None of them want it because it looks
bad. So as it gets into a price range
that makes sense for the kinds of things
that they need. Then their demand
actually goes up. Then it can stay up
while it's in a good range. And then of
course at some point you are priced out
of them that that particular kind of
company's like I'm not going to spend
$10 million a year on it. Are you
kidding? So yes, it does slope down and
go away. So it's not a normal curve, but
it is like it slopes up and then it's
something and slopes down. Who knows
exactly what it looks what what shape it
is? Probably none of us know, but it's
more like a messa and not a line that
goes up to down like we like in the
textbook. For that market, it's only the
very lowest, you might even say worst in
terms of metrics end of the market that
has the microeconomic slope that you're
worried about. So what happens is you
raise prices and you enter a different
market and that's why the signups go up
or okay
uh you leave behind perhaps a worse
market anyway and of course everyone
will tell you you know the more they pay
the higher retention is and that you
know like all the all the kinds of stuff
gets better when you when you u when you
charge more. So this question is pricing
correct? This is kind of what what's in
my mind when I ask that question. It's
like probably the answer is no because
pricing is very hard. It's just as much
art as it is science. Um, you've had
some really good people on here on
pricing. In fact, so good that I've
bought some of the books that those
people have talked about because I I
love the interview so much. Right. So,
so like um so I I believe in all that.
No pro no problem. I believe in it. Um,
nevertheless, they also say it's art and
science and it's it's it's very
difficult to uh and and also once you
augur it in the world changes like 5 10
years later, the market is different.
The world's different and uh so it's
still it's still unclear. Also, price is
not just the number on the web page.
It's easy to think that, right? But how
it's structured is just as important.
How the product's positioned is just as
important. So, for example,
this example I've written about before
um online is uh uh this example it
actually was something that um that I
that happened in my life, but I I
changed the story to make it like simple
and and real and clear without having to
get into lots of detail. So, the the
sort of story version is uh how this
company was able to charge eight times
as much for the same product just by
talking about it differently.
So just by positioning it differently,
eight times as much. Again, this
happened to me, but it's it's too
complicated. It's not not interesting.
Those details are not interesting. So
say there's this company called Double
Down, and the idea is that it hves the
cost of your AdWords because it makes it
so efficient.
So that's what it says on the web page.
Cut your AdWords cost in half.
Which is a very good pitch, isn't it?
Simple, obviously valuable. But when you
think, so let's suppose uh I have a I'm
a customer and I spend $40,000 a month
on AdWords.
What am I willing to pay for Double
Down? Well, if you do cut my AdWords in
half, then all right, I save I save 20K,
but I'm not willing to give 20K to
Double Down because then I'm not saving
any money. In order to actually save
money, I need to give Double Down less
money. How much less? I don't know.
Let's just call it a quarter. So, I pay
Double Down 5K to save 20. So, I'm s I'm
really saving 15. Doubled down's making
5K a month. That's pretty good.
Everyone's pretty happy at this 5 grand
a month price point. So, there's nothing
wrong with this. No one's doing anything
wrong. Like, that's a perfectly valid
company. However,
think about these two situations that
the CMO might be or the chief product
officer might be in in talking to the
CEO at the end of the year. Well,
scenario one goes, we started using this
tool, doubled down, and it haved our
cost. So, we got we able to spend that
money on some other stuff. We were able
to save money. And the CEO go would say,
great, that's good. Let's we're going to
renew and I'm happy to hear it. Again,
nothing wrong here, but let's take a
different tact altogether. What does the
CEO want to hear more? Growth or saves
money? Both are good, but I know which
one is healthier for the company,
increases market share, is better
competitively, and also makes the
company more valuable. It's the growth.
So, what we'd really like the CMO to
tell the CEO is, I increase the growth
rate of the company, not so much I save
money. That was way better. So, here's
how we could do that with Double Down.
Yes, Double Down has the cost, but what
that means is right now, right now, the
company is paying 200 bucks per lead.
Let's call them leads, right? Whatever,
whatever this is outputting, right?
Well, if I have the cost of a lead, I
could get twice the leads for the same
money. I'm already willing to spend $200
a lead and I'm already spending 40k a
month for it. So, if Doubledown has the
cost, it means I can get more leads.
So what I the way I could pitch double
down is double the leads per month with
period.
Now if I'm willing to spend 40k for this
number of leads, how much am I willing
to spend to double the leads? 40k.
I just said I'm willing to spend 40k for
this number of leads. So doubling it.
I'm willing to spend 40k to double it.
So if I give double down 40k not five
for the same product which is the leads
are cheaper but then now the pitch is I
doubled the leads for 40k instead of h
instead of having the cost for 5k so
double down gets 8x the money because it
gets 40k for this product not eight not
not 5k for this product
>> amazing story
>> and everyone's happy because the CEO
goes what did you do and they said like
oh my god I doubled leads what yeah I
mean at the same at the at the same ROI
as we had before, same CAC, I doubled
leads. CEO goes, how could we do more of
that? Like, I mean, just everything is
so much better, same product. Now, I
know it's a little bit of an
exaggeration, etc., because I'm trying
to make a point, right? But the but the
the big point is
uh or the the largest point is pricing
is not just the number on the page.
It's positioning. It's how their budgets
work. It's how it's structured. like
it's per site or it's per usage or it's
per seat or it's per all of this stuff
is part of what pricing is. And often
even if it's the same price or the same
product, depending on how that's
structured, it's either seems um fair
and and and good or it seems like unfair
and too expensive or whatever. Um and so
in particular with the positioning, the
big lesson for product managers is
sell more of what the company values
like growth. It doesn't have to be
growth. It could be something else.
Their the retention for their customers
comp their competit how competitive they
are in the market. Like there's various
things they could value. Growth is an
obvious one. Sell them that they're
going to get more of what they value as
opposed to saving cutting ROI
saves time saves money more efficient.
And again there there's nothing wrong
with saving money saves time. It's just
that it caps this price and this value
that is they perceive that you do.
Whereas if you deliver more of the value
that they already value, it's I don't
want to say uncapped completely, but
like the cap is maybe an order of
magnitude higher than saving. So again,
it's it's valuable to save. You're not
doing anything wrong. Like that's not
how to talk about what it is and
therefore help set the price. So yeah,
so it's a it's a long way of saying so
when again when I think is your pricing
correct I'm thinking in a maybe a more
general way than just like the number
I'm thinking about the structure the
positioning and all that and my guess is
when growth is slowing um no that
there's a lot of improvement that could
be that could be had there.
>> Oh man this is such this story is so
powerful who does not want to change
some copy on their website and double
their growth and triple their price. Um
and the the biggest takeaway here is
when you say is pricing correct isn't
like what is the number 20 or 25 or 100
it's it's almost is the market we are
going after correct is the way we are
selling to them correct is this price
communicating the right sort of story
and then also is the positioning of what
problem we solve for you correct so
there's a lot here and luckily I've done
a bunch of episodes along this stuff
which we'll point people to
>> to go much deeper cuz This is a very
>> this is a deep skill and there's a lot
to do here.
>> One thing I'll mention specifically, so
Jen Ael, a recent podcast guest, it was
her second visit to the podcast. She has
a lot of really good advice on this of
just how to price and how to reposition
the way you're selling it. Specifically,
she had this really interesting insight
that enterprises their sweet spot for
contracts is like 75 to 150K. That's
like how they normally buy SAS software.
And it sounds absurd, but that's kind of
what you want to you want your product
to be in that bucket versus like a
thousand a month, 2,000 a month, and
everything just gets easier if you're
like, "Okay, this is one of those. Okay,
cool." It gets easier. Um the thing, uh
I don't want to go off too much of a
tangent, but the the the thing you have
to remember is that pricing is not this
knob that you can turn separately from
the rest of your strategy.
So when you say like even when I just
said raise prices or whatever um but you
can't just raise prices like these new
customers have different demands now
maybe you need sock too now your other
governance stuff matters now integrating
to certain systems you didn't know about
matters maybe now they need professional
services like you can't just raise
prices and change market and like that's
it and maybe that's wise to do but maybe
it's not maybe you realize that sure, of
course, that other market has certain
advantages, but they also have
disadvantages, and we don't want those
either because we'll no longer be
competitive because the way that we're
distinguished, competitive, special,
interesting, valuable is only valuable
in the market we're in. The the next
market does not value it like that. And
so, uh-oh, um, actually, that would be
really bad for us. Or it could even be
cultural. We're a company like Buffer is
a great example. Buffer could go up
market and try to sell, you know, social
media tools or whatever. But they
realized we are a company for the little
people. I don't want to sell to a big
company. We're never going to make a
product for them. We don't want to. This
is who we are. This is what we want to
do. This is what's fulfilling to us. So,
we're not going to go there. So, it can
be cultural. It can be certain goals. It
can be it can be other aspects of of the
business model or the strategy, but you
it's not this kind of like, oh, I'll
just I'll just change this. It's a
decision about the whole strategy and
that too we could talk about for hours.
Um but um I'll just let's just caution
that. Uh oh, I'll just go enterprise
like is is of course not how it goes.
Sorry. We got this.
>> Yeah, I love Jen. Her pricing and and
sales stuff is good. She's great on
Twitter, too. She's I love her. I love
Jen.
>> And that is such an important nuance,
you know. Don't build the thing you're
miserable building and just like, okay,
I listen to a podcast. We're going to
raise our prices 10x and life will be
grand. There's also downsides.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. Okay. Uh, amazing advice. Okay,
there's so much here. Again, this could
be its own conversation. Pricing,
positioning. Yeah, we'll link folks to a
bunch of cool advice that um we've
covered on this podcast, too.
>> If you're a founder, the hardest part of
starting a company isn't having the
idea, it's scaling the business without
getting buried in back office work.
That's where B comes in. Brex is the
intelligent finance platform for
founders. With Brex, you get high limit
corporate cards, easy banking, high
yield treasury, plus a team of AI agents
that handle manual finance tasks for
you. They'll do all the stuff that you
don't want to do, like file your
expenses, scour transactions for waste,
and run reports, all according to your
rules. With Brex AI agents, you can move
faster while staying in full control.
One in three startups in the United
States already runs on Brex. You can too
at brex.com.
>> Let's keep going through this uh
checklist. So, one was look at logo
churn. Yeah. Two is look at is your
pricing correct?
>> Is pricing right? And why do we why do
we think it is? Because we probably
don't have good reasons yet.
>> Okay. So, the third one is are existing
customers growing? I think everyone
probably knows this but just to say it
um okay if if cancellations overtake
marketing in in in in u magnitude
one way to combat I mean one thing is
okay make cancellations lower but they
can't be zero so another what else do we
have to combat cancellations that would
be proportional to our size so that it
keeps up unlike marketing right or you
know basic direct marketing so one would
be all right 2% left but of the
remaining 98% some of those upgraded or
otherwise paid us more. Maybe it's usage
based, whatever it is, they're paying us
more. And so that that covers the gap
and that's and and yes, if I tripled the
company overnight, that would triple.
And so that's the answer. So that is an
answer. And maybe that's obvious, but
you know, it's useful to tie it back to
the the sort of model mental model we've
got going. Um, and of course the the
metric here is NRR net revenue
retention. And the way that's computed
is you say what is the revenue of
customers right now like so existing
customers existing whatever just the
whole total and then one year from now
what of that remains so not new
customers coming in not talking about
them because we're asking about the
cohort that exists what remains so with
cancels it goes down with downgrades it
goes down but with upgrades it goes up
so when I say remains it could end
higher than we started if upgrades
exceed
cancellations and downgrades and now we
are talking about MR and not N because N
doesn't have this N doesn't have an
upgrade and just only goes down which
again is why I think the N is actually
the most important one
because think about it like a lot of
times people think so if you've heard of
NR you might think well that's my golden
metric I'm done
but the issue is if NR is positive but N
goes down too fast it doesn't matter
because not enough people are left
and so there's not enough people left
over to upgrade and so actually you're
wrong and so NR does not does not
include that and therefore it actually
underounts what's going on in a bad way
like in a way that's that that hurts
you. There's yet another way to see why
what I'm saying is right. You know,
there's this this thing in investments
where let's say I started out at $100
and the stock goes down 5%. So now it's
at 90 or no, it goes down 20%, now it's
at 80. Then it goes up 20%. Is it back
to 100?
No. Because 20% were then 80 is 96. So
if it goes down 20% and up 20%, it does
not come back to zero. It's worse.
When you have a loss, a percentage loss,
you have to have a greater percentage
gain just to get back to where you were.
In this case, a loss of 20% requires a
gain of 25% to get back to where you
were. This is why NR isn't quite right
because NR is saying that a loss of 20%
from cancellations is offset by 20% from
upgrades.
As we just saw, no, it's not. That only
gets us to 96% actually. So, this is why
like again, I believe in NR. saying you
got to lo track it like it's good just
in the back of your mind realize it's
not quite that good and looking at N
helps me keep keeps you honest about
what's really going on with these
customer cohorts right so that's why
they're both useful in fact but that's
this is why they're both useful so NR of
course is important a nice way to see
this is it if all this is if everything
I'm saying is true and there's these
limits and stuff because of cancellation
then there should be no way to get a big
company like a public SAS company Unless
NR is greater than 100, like otherwise
cancellation should just win. And that
is in fact the case. There's over a
hundred SAS public companies and
something like two of them have NR less
than 100%.
Like that's how it goes. And those
companies have horrible financials and
their values valuations are are bad.
Like it's not good. It's not a good
thing, right? So, and in fact the median
for a IPOed SAS company like at IPO the
median NR is 119%.
So that's so yes that's what it takes.
You can't do this. You're limited in
less. Now your your goal may or may not
be to get that big but the point being
it's mandatory for growth. Now if the
literal customers are just leaving like
you know that you got to you got to plug
that hole first like you said. But okay,
if they're okay, that's why this is in
order. If that's generally okay, now we
turn to NR to say, okay, but the ones
who stay, they're hopefully happy. They
need to grow. Okay, so that's the kind
of the full story of NR. I think people
don't quite people who've heard of NR
don't necessarily think about all those
things and realize that. So a good
question is, okay, what do I do with NR?
But I think the answers are pretty clear
like you add features, you have
different tiers, you change the pricing
in some way uh with usage or seats or
something that kind of goes up
automatically as they get more value out
of it. So I I don't think that's
terribly interesting to like double
click into. It's it's sort of obvious. I
would say oh look it's tied into pricing
because their behavior. But the main
thing is you want it to so to where the
customer themselves would agree when
they pay more that they are getting more
value. Hopefully, they even think
they're getting far more value than the
price going up, right? That I'm I'm I'm
gonna say this as if it's precise, which
it's not. But they need to feel like if
the price doubles, yeah, but I'm getting
five times the value, so that's fine.
Like that should be the feeling whether
they can measure it or not. A a good way
to do that is to say, well, then you
should be measuring whether they're
getting value out of it. Often we
measure like usage metrics and other
kinds of metrics within our product
because we can. But actually what's
really important is to measure how does
the customer value this and we need to
measure that so that we make that go up
because if we make that go up they'll be
willing to pay in whatever structure.
And if that isn't going up they won't be
willing to pay. So even if we start
making them they'll leave. And we all
know we've all probably done it
ourselves. We've all had products we
love, but then as we scale, the price
goes up faster than we feel the value
is, and then we start looking for other
products. Like we've all experienced
that. So that's what I'm saying. To do
that, you want some sort of measure of
the value the customer is getting. If
you're really lucky, that can be a
number. That would be wonderful. Then go
do that and maybe that's your northstar.
But um admittedly, it's not always
possible. So then the question is the
usual questions of metrics. Are there
proxy metrics that we understand?
They're not the full picture, but
they're helpful. they're part of the you
know um and and I'm a big believer in
saying not all important things are
numbers I mean even things like how
differentiated are we in the market not
a number but it's very important so this
might be one of those things that's
important but not not a number so okay
can we get some proxy metrics even of
behavior other things that's something
um something better than some metric
that's you know just operational and
even if it's qualitative okay can we do
that can we talk to customers and ask
them qualitative questions to try to say
like you know I would just say like do
your best here because only when you
generate more value for the customer you
can then decide how to split that with
the customer in terms of things like
price you know right um but that's
that's my um that's in fact how I think
of it that very phrase how do we create
more value for the customer and then
split that with them and when you do
that you're keeping the customer
forefront in mind you are taking some
like splitting means you get some like
like let's not forget it's not a charity
and on the other hand first we should
think how are we generating value for
customers and then think and then we can
take a little we've now earned the
ability to take a little piece of that
so to me this is the right way to think
about NRR not just we'll add a feature
and make them pay true but let's
actually take it from this different
let's get there from this different
perspective
>> amazing there's uh in the recent modavon
episode where we go into pricing you
actually have some really good tactical
advice for measuring the value that
you're giving to a company to quantify
that uh which feeds into this idea of
how do I create more value for you and
then how do we split it?
>> Yeah.
>> The other element of this that's top of
mind is just this land and expand
strategy. There's a lot of companies
that are just like okay cool we'll get
in with some price we'll expand that'll
be amazing which is essentially
expanding is NR going above 100%. Yes.
Something Jen actually shared on her in
her chat that was really important is
that you can't expand that much in ter
at least for a while because if you get
in for like 10k uh if you go up to okay
now it's 100k someone's going to be like
what is this why is this can't go up 10x
are we getting 10x value from this you
can't just raise prices later you're
kind of stuck at that reference point so
you have to be really careful there.
Yeah, I think that's right. Um, and
maybe you don't deserve it. Like, in
other words,
especially when there's investors or
other sort of forces saying like, "Hey,
we need a x, y, and z." The forces that
are not the customer saying that um
yeah, we you can you can be you can be
coerced into making pricing or other
kinds of policies that in fact are not
good for the customer. So, so one one uh
tool I use uh is when when anyone claims
anything really is is is that really
true or is that really actually good for
the customer? Because look, we are going
to do things that are selfishly good for
us. We have to we can't just do things
that are bad for us. But but is this in
fact good for the customer? Because
often often even in an internal
proposal, we say it as if it is. Oh,
this pricing will be good. It'll raise
prices on everyone, but it's better
because of this reason that we we're
sort of justifying, right? It's like,
well, is it will the customer say this
is better? If the answer is no, it's
like, okay, it's not it's better for us,
but sorry, we have an equation where it
has to be better for us and better for
the customer. Sorry, it's an AMP, you
know, and of course, not all companies
do that. And we and we experience that
on all of us um as as consumers on the
other end of that, and we don't like it.
and and that's not a good long-term
strategy even though it might work in
the short term as many bad long-term
strategies are.
>> I love just how uh this third step just
reveals how powerful the sequence is
that we're going through. Step one is
this logo retention essentially do we
have product market fit? Step two is
pricing positioning essentially are we
going after the right market and
charging them the right amount roughly.
And then here it's just can we can we
grow? Is there something here that can
continue to expand because you're going
to get eaten alive if you're especially
and this is just to be clear this is B2B
SAS primarily that we're talking about
here. It's harder to grow an or if
you're consumer product that has I don't
know just like a tier two.
>> What what I would say is the the rules
are true everywhere because they're
based in the mechanics of finance in the
business.
>> Now you are right that a cons that in
the consumer segment or small business
segment for that matter um they tend not
to grow.
So that doesn't mean the NR question is
invalid. It means dang, we can't think
of anything.
>> That's okay. Then you go on to the next
question because you can't think of
anything. But you know, but it would be
more strategic if we could.
>> Mhm. Yeah.
>> And are we trying hard enough? As a
consumer, I do not want to spend more
with AT&T, but they're also not giving
me any more value.
>> But there are other products as a
consumer like Amazon where they do. So
you're right, but it would be as a
product manager, it would be 10 times
more valuable for you to think of
something like that, you know, than to
move on to other things and etc. Or
there's other ways like other products
like we didn't talk about it and it's
okay because of course each one of these
is you could go on forever, right? But
another way is a second product.
A second product sold to the same
segments that you're in so that your
existing customers can buy it. Well, I
don't know why that wouldn't work in
consumer. It certainly works in consumer
and apparel.
>> I think about AG1 which has all these
new like I'm doing their sleep uh
supplement and there it goes. They're
just like here's a new thing you can
buy.
>> Yeah.
>> So like like so is it harder? Yeah. Of
course. Of course. Like all of these are
like easier or harder in different
segments and ways like of course of
course. I'm not trying to say otherwise.
>> I but I would say the mechanics of how
the finances work is the same. You're
just saying I don't have this lever to
pull. And then I would say okay then you
need different levers. Um, one that we
didn't talk about, um, is one way to
offset the cancellations is existing
customers grow. But another way is if
existing customers bring in new
customers. So they didn't grow, but they
brought their friend. Now this is
absolutely something that happens in
consumer. But it's also an answer to
this thing where cancellations grow
exponentially. You know, because
existing customers bring in new does
triple if you have more existing
customers. Aha. So this is stuff like um
you know refer a friend and all this
kind of stuff. Again like some of this
is is obvious. We don't need to
enumerate that but uh so so those things
are good. And so in consumer you might
say oh it's easier to try to get someone
to invite a friend with a coupon and
blah blah blah blah than it is to try to
get them to grow. But in B2B that may
not be true, right? I don't get a
mid-size company to refer. Like that
doesn't make sense. So, so once again,
this question of how do we have the
existing base help us grow is still
correct in consumer but its
manifestation could be very different.
Of course, I agree with that. But um I
mean how could how could we not say I
mean of course things like word of mouth
and inviting friend of course that's
enormous with consumer and this is this
is one of the reasons why
>> I'm uh I just love picturing the people
listening to this especially product
folks founders I I imagine many of them
are just sitting here taking all these
notes of how to help grow their product
because as this is we've positioned this
conversation as how to uh deal with
stalled growth but it's actually just as
useful how do I grow more
>> oh for sure right right it's more growth
It's just maybe a little more evocative.
>> It's It's because if growth is good,
yeah, sure you want to grow more, but
it's not the problem.
>> Like if growth is really good, the
problem is generally operationally
scaling to meet the growth. Uh and so
you're focused on that. It's when growth
slows, you're like, whoa, wait, wait,
wait, wait. Right. We we have to focus
on growth now. Must as opposed to of
course it's always nice. So yeah.
>> Yeah. And I was thinking as we were
talking about consumer NR, if you look
at Duelingo, they've done a great job
here. There's so many ways you can pay
them more for all these little
>> advances. Get all these gems. Change the
color of your app to like something
fancy.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Okay. So, there's more. Let's keep
going. So, we've done three. There's
more more you can do.
>> So, okay. Logo churn. Um uh uh
>> pricing
>> NR and then maybe it's stalled. So, this
is really a stalled question. Maybe your
acquisition channels, your marketing
channels are saturated. We're done. I
mean, we're what we tend to do is flog
the people doing AdWords, get more flog
the SEO people, get more searches,
right? It's possible that this is it.
Maybe this is it in some sort of
physical law. There literally isn't
anything else. Or maybe this is it just
this is how good we can be. We're just
not this is it, right? But there really
are limits. You know, they it's there's
different words for it. Inventory is is
sort of the old word like with magazine
ads. uh inventory was the word, but
there's just this amount like there is
only so many searches in your area and
you can only appear once in the search
results for a given keyword. So there is
this limit of like what you can get.
Even if you were number one position for
everything, you know, other things that
are that are not even practical, uh
there's still a limit and there's some
kind of practical limit that's below
there that we we don't really know. But,
you know, maybe we're there or maybe
we're close. And worse, channels tend to
decline over time. So, I think people
talk about S-curves, right? Oh, I uh I
didn't figure out this market, then I
figured it out. You know, we we we we
unlocked it. Now, we're getting, you
know, 100 leads per month through
Facebook or whatever. But then it kind
of taps out and then we go into this
optimization mode. Can we ek out another
blah blah blah blah, which is right,
that's right. And you call that an
S-curve because it's shaped like that.
But that's not what happens. What
happens is it starts with an S-curve and
then it starts sagging. Its butt starts
sagging down. So, I wrote an article
about this called the elephant curve,
which is what I named it, right? Because
it's like this trunk and then but then
it's this butt. And what and and there's
different reasons why this happens, but
if you talk to any marketer, they'll
they'll all tell you, "Oh my god, let me
tell you this story, right? They all
have stories about it because yeah, this
is what happens." Um there's different
reasons that um first of all, the the
audience gets saturated, you know,
because there's all these little
marketing isms and I don't know if
they're true or not. I don't I don't
think any of it has any data that
actually proves it, but whatever. Like,
you know, if worms if words uh start
with the same letter, that's better. I
don't think I don't think anyone's ever
proved that's true, but marketers seem
to think so. Okay. Well, one of the
things is someone has to see it seven
times before they act. Okay. All right.
Well, maybe they saw it seven times
already, so they don't want it, you
know, or they saw it 20 times, right?
So, so, so you you initially you got you
hit people who hadn't seen it yet,
right? But now you have and you know
especially with magazine ads as I used
to do before there was no such thing. Um
that's exactly what would happen. You'd
have this nice surge and then like well
we've seen this we've seen it before. So
you still get a little trick. You still
get some because you know it was just
that moment they needed to see it again.
Okay but like there's this sort of um
but a lot of people have already seen it
and they don't want it or the channel is
declining and they'll never tell you.
When I did magazine ads, every year they
would tell you what their circulation
is, and every year it would go up and
then the magazine would go out of
business. Conferences are the same way.
Attendance is great. Attendance is
great. Oh, wait. We're out of business
because we couldn't get enough people to
come. What? What they said? It was
great. And but at but you know, more
quietly, Adwords, Facebook ads, even SEO
searches, it's this does happen all over
the place. Affiliates, it can happen.
And now with AI, I mean, I don't even
know, right? It's disrupting everything.
I, you know, we've all heard stories
going all different directions. I think
the answer is I don't know. Shrug is the
answer. And what will it be like in two
years? Another shrug. But the point
being they're not all they're not all
going to be growing a lot. Like that's
not that's not one of the futures that
AI will bring. So it has this sag.
That's just a very long way of maybe
trying to prove this point. But it's yet
another reason why you can't just rely
on marketing forever because they not
only you try to stack things, but
there's not like infinite number of
marketing channels you could advertise
in that your customers are actually
going to and they sag. Oh no. Like it's
even harder to keep up. So it's kind of
like the secret like reinforcing my very
first point here with with this. But
here are they all saturated because we
could fogg marketing all we want. It's
not going to work. So maybe growth is
slowing because this is all our channels
are saturated. possibly even sagging,
but even if not, okay, not growing. And
so, we can't just flog the marketing
department.
It's going to take something else,
right? Um, then the obvious thing is get
more channels, but again, maybe there
aren't any. So, again, there there's
many possible things to do, but this is
like this critical thing to notice
because I guess I would put it this way.
Do you know right now which channels are
saturated and which aren't? If the
answer is no, I'm like, well, okay,
maybe that's because the answer is all.
You know, that needs to change what you
how you think. Just adding one little
feature and then hoping we can flog
Adwords is not going to work. Even if
the feature is great, not going to work.
So there's there's different things that
could work, but that's not one of them.
And yet, that's probably what we're
doing. Let's add another feature and
marketing can fogg it is is often the
answer. But if you're in this state,
that isn't the answer. So this is this
is why like you could say it's obvious
to say this or that but if but are are
you acting like this is true
you know often we don't um okay so so
there are many things to do again we
don't have to enumerate all of them or
something um it's just simply the right
question to ask but for example uh some
people are like um we've done direct
maybe we should try things like SEO and
social and these other indirects or vice
versa we're really good at SEO but we've
never taken out ads often if you've done
ads and they're optimized you know what
content might be good to write stuff for
SEO and maybe even vice versa maybe. So,
it's a good idea and sometimes it works,
but here I have no data. I only have my
my feeling here and actually you
probably have a lot more visibility into
this, but my experience is a product
that's sold really well direct actually
doesn't do well in things like social
and SEO and vice versa. If you're
getting a lot of traffic through SEO,
adding ads often like costs a lot and
doesn't really move the needle. like you
can tell me like is that because I don't
have data to support that that theory.
>> Yeah, my take is like you can always get
some percentage of win from all these
different channels. Usually one channel
is where most of your growth will come
from and so over time everyone just adds
every channel. Everyone's doing ads.
Everyone's doing SEO in some form. But
it's usually like sales or word of mouth
or ads that drives everything.
Everything else is kind of like little
layer on top.
>> Yeah. So, you know, should you do that?
Yeah, probably. especially if you're at
some scale and you can just afford to
because it's such a clear thing to do.
But probably you'll have to get more
creative about what it means to add a
channel or something like a new product
or a new market where it's it's it's
actually new. It's expanding in a new
way rather than trying to incrementally
expand what you're already doing. So an
example of getting creative on a channel
is what Constant Contact did when they
had this very problem of growth is slow.
We don't know how we sell email
marketing newsletters to small business
before all these modern tools existed.
And one of the things they did that
restarted growth is they physically went
to a bunch of cities and held workshops
showing here's how to do email marketing
for your small business. So the
restaurant tour and the dentist and
every would come to these sessions and
they teach them how of course teaching
them how with constant contact. So they
became customers, right? that you would
think there's no way this is
cost-effective physically being in these
cities and dragging people in for a you
know $20 a month product like no way. It
was very effective and actually solved
in that moment their their restarted
growth. They were very clever about
first of all it's a clever idea but then
they were clever about how to do it.
They took like power users who were also
agencies. So like these could become
customers of their okay all like you
could be clever about like how is it
that we do something uh something
different something new. So that's
possible. Of course, it's always hard to
say, "Think of something clever." That's
that's a weird finger wagging thing to
do, but okay, it's true. But, uh, yeah,
it it could be a different type of
channel. For example, um, HubSpot
famously, uh, tested selling through
agencies instead of direct. It ended up
being 50% of the revenue after four or
five years. So, it's one of the main
reasons why they're able to continue
growing. Um, same thing happens with my
company, WP Engine. Tons of our uh
websites are sold through
uh uh agencies that create WordPress
sites. So um there could be something
that's not direct anymore that's you
know another channel of human beings or
something like that could be could could
in fact dramatically change your growth
rate. U there's lots of examples like
those. So but but it could be like it's
time for the next product like and I
said that earlier because it's always
possible. Of course we all know that's
very hard. It's it's risky. I have sort
of a framework that I use to think about
that kind of expansion which I'm happy
to happy to provide. I've also written
it up but I'm happy to say it right
here. But uh usually you want to stay in
the target in the target market you're
already good at and grow from there. But
sometimes the whole point of the
expansion is to change the or change
target m or add something where you're
leveraging something else about the
company that you have as an asset going
somewhere else. So this is what this
framework helps decide. But um one way
or another you probably want to uh plant
one foot into some strength or asset
that you have move the other foot which
is the risky Bart but the idea is that
yeah well we have this big upside so
we're we're taking that bet and like
that becomes a smart bet. Um so with
things of course that's true for any of
these things but especially if
acquisition channels are full and it's
like we literally can't ask the
marketing department like that's just
not one of the choices. It almost forces
us to start taking these more drastic
bets to say, "Well, we got to do
something and that's not one of them."
>> I just want to keep saying how awesome
this advice is and how many people are
going to benefit from like, you know,
none of this is like, "Oh, I've never
ever thought of any of this." It's just
like the very methodical uh sequence of
questions you should be asking yourself
to help you not just undo stalled
growth, but also just come up with a
bunch of great growth ideas. And this
specific section, it like it makes
sense. somebody's discovered alpha in a
growth channel. Say, uh, SAPI just
launched. Tik Tok just, you know,
there's like, oh, cool. What's the new
thing? Okay, let's get there quick. And
then you drive a bunch of growth. It's
awesome. Eventually, everyone's going to
start doing that. And so, you should
assume everything that is working for
you now will slow down. Uh, I've never
uh I've missed your post on the the
elephant uh scurve. What do you call it?
The elephant curve.
>> Yeah, elephant curve.
>> It's so Yeah, that's so real. just it's
not just this S-curve that will forever
continue to drive win. It will actually
dip and decline over time because other
people discover it and start using it.
>> Yeah,
>> I love that. So, the idea here is and
the classic advice is like not whether
it's an S-curve or an Lin curve, think
about are you starting to approach the
the the apex of that and start to
explore other channels before you slow
down or start to dip. Yeah, it's easy to
hear stuff like, "Oh, if marketing is is
full, do something else." And you go, "I
know." But then you look at people's
behavior and it's like, "Well, you're
not acting like you know, you know, so
maybe what needs to be said in enough
detail that you actually do something
about it."
>> And this is it's important to note this
is a very hard problem. Most companies
do not really solve this. They something
worked for them.
>> Sure.
>> And then it stops working and then like,
"All right, well, we found something and
then it just kind of went away." There's
a couple posts we're going to link to in
the show notes that will help you come
up with ideas that are all around new
growth channels that are emerging. One
is by Emily Kramer around ecosystems as
a new growth channel. And there's a lot
of really cool advice there around this
kind of emerging combination of
influencers and content and partners
where it's your ecosystem that helps
grow. Basically, there's a quote from
the head of growth at Whiz where it's
like, "Why start with zero when you can
start with 10,000 essentially growing
through someone with an audience
already?" And then there's going to be a
post out by the time this comes out
around Chad GPT's app store, which is
going to let you submit apps. And that's
a really interesting, potentially huge
new growth channel for companies. So,
cool stuff happening there. So just to
summarize logo retention, pricing, NRR,
marketing, channel saturation, what
comes next? The last question is, do you
need to grow?
So okay, growth is stalled. And if we
assume every question before has been
answered in a satisfactory way,
you could ask, hey, is that a problem?
What do we mean by grow? What do we need
to do exactly? Now of course you should
know these kind of things with goals all
the time but
and again like obviously the answer
could be once again oh new products
these other things where like this
company when we say do you need to grow
if we define you as this product in this
market in this company the answer might
be no what what we need to do is have a
different product or in a different
market or a different thing or you could
you could change the word uh revenue if
you say do you need to grow revenue you
could change the word revenue and say
you know But what we could do is
maximize profit instead of revenue now.
We've been maximizing revenue, but maybe
we maximize profit instead. And so this
is a company like 37 Signals or really
lots of bootstrap companies who have hit
some sort of limit and realize that's
okay. Like the founders are getting paid
millions of dollars a year in dividends
and like it's okay.
I don't have to get in fact if I got
bigger it might be an organization that
I don't like or serving a market segment
that I don't want to serve or whatever.
Um, and so maybe maybe growing forever
isn't the goal actually or growing
revenue isn't. Um, you could ask
philosophically,
why grow anything? Why isn't it just
okay to have stasis? And we all have
heard the phrase, if you're not growing,
you're dying,
right? This is a classic company thing.
Is that true or is that the kind of
thing that like investors use to like
make founders grow or try to grow even
when they shouldn't?
It might be, but I would submit that
even at a bootstrap company that has
other values and culture um other than
growth at all costs that that phrase is
still fairly relevant because if the
company's stagnant for years, is that a
great environment for everyone as the
founder? Did you start this company in
order to do the same thing every day? Is
that is that why you did it? Do you
really want to do is that fulfilling for
you? What about everyone else? Nobody
Nobody wants to further their career.
They just want to do the same thing
every day and never further their
career, not really learn anything, not
really innovate. Does it feel good to
just not be not not be growing? The
answer could be yes. Uh, you know, if
I'm a CPA and I have some clients and
life is good. Um, the answer could be
yes. Like, you know, I'm not saying I'm
not dictating the answer here, right?
I'm just asking because a lot of times
whether it's our careers or as founders,
our companies, a lot of times we've just
been in the mode of I've got to grow,
I've got to get promoted, I've got to do
more, I've got my resume. We've got in
that mode for so long, like maybe our
whole life that I was going to say lose
sight of, but maybe we never had sight
of, wait, does this make me happy? Is
this what I really want? Am I fulfilled
doing this? or even if I do have these
goals, have I gotten stuck in a rut
where my goal is growth and you know, I
don't know, more money, more everything
and I'm but I'm stuck in a rut here like
what sometimes we forget to take a step
back and go, wait a minute, what is
this? Is this still right or do I need
to turn the page and have a new chapter
of life right now, you know? And so this
question, do do you need to grow or if
you're not growing, you're dying. Well,
for some people, no, they like doing the
same thing forever. And and and that's
great actually. That's a that's a that's
nice. But for many people, especially
the kind of people who want to get into
product and build stuff and innovate and
people who start companies, a lot of
people like that are not the kind of
people that want to just, you know, kind
of do wrote things for 20 years. And so
the not growing part, what I like to say
is maybe the you and if you are not
growing, you're dying is you the person
as opposed to you the company. It's also
you the company, right? But like what if
we took it to mean you? If you are not
growing, then in some sense maybe for
some people you're dying. Maybe if
you're listening to this, that's you.
You got to you're a shark and you got to
go. And we all know people too who claim
they hate work or maybe they do hate
work. Let's not say claim they do hate
work, but then they retire and and and
kind of go downhill because they don't
have a purpose or this or that and the
other thing. In that case, it was true.
If they're not growing, they're dying.
literally.
So you again I don't mean to overstate
this and I certainly don't mean to claim
that there's some answer that's right
for everybody of course but surely this
is the right kind of question and surely
for many people who are listening to
this the answer is yeah I mean in some
sense some very rough sense that's
probably right for me and so if I'm in a
stagnant situation and really every
other option has been exhausted and
isn't going to happen this is simply a
stagnant thing maybe there's something
else needs to happen I I need to leave.
The company needs to change some drastic
way. I sell the company. I change jobs.
I I don't know. Like, of course, it's
going to be super context specific and
and and personal, right? But like
something dramatic may need to change
because nothing incrementally is
changing.
So this final question, do you need to
grow or if you're not growing, you're
dying? Is that true? And are you
therefore dying? And what needs to
happen? You know, so if you were looking
for more metrics in another framework,
sorry, that's ex is ex existential, but
it is it is existential. So, uh,
uh, do you have to only ask this at the
end of the chain? No. Of course, you
should feel fulfilled. And, you know, of
course, you want to be checking in with
yourself at least annually, of course.
But, um, I sort of put at the end of my
list in the sense that I'm assuming the
original question is about the company,
you know. Um uh but but especially with
smaller companies, but but also also
with big public companies. There's
plenty of big public companies that
aren't growing, aren't there?
So like this is this is uh this is true
of all scales because there are natural
sizes for things. Um so yeah, it's a
little philosophical, but uh I think
it's quite important.
>> Such a beautiful way to wrap up this
piece. Uh, a lot of people listening to
the podcast are bootstrap founders and
for them this is actually very much an
option. They can just be happy with the
revenue they're generating. Like with my
newsletter right now, I'd be very sad if
it stopped growing,
>> but also just it's uh amazing the life
it has created for me. And even if it
did stop growing and just stay flat and
doesn't become an elephant curve, that'd
be incredible in like in practice
psychologically still hard for that to
be the case. And that's why this
component of the of the sequence is
really important. Like why do you
actually need it to grow? Is that just
your ego? Is that just like I'm used to
growth? It can also help you help you
avoid
doing unnatural things that you actually
regret to grow. So like if growth at all
costs is just the the thing like there's
probably ways you could quote unquote
grow the newsletter that you would just
say I just wouldn't be proud of that and
the newsletter is doing so well I don't
need to do that. And so again, maybe
that's a softer version because growth
hasn't actually stopped. But okay, it's
a softer version of um I certainly don't
agree with grow. You you might say, I
certainly don't agree with growth at all
costs. I want to grow as much as
possible within the things that I'm
proud of. Like if we grew fast, but the
content was crappy. I'm just not willing
to do that. It's like not the point, you
know? And so it helps set up these
boundaries of like, wait a minute, not
if dot dot dot. And uh you know, early
on we may not have that um that
flexibility. You could argue that you
should have those values early on
because that's who you are and that's
what you're doing and people respond. So
I could argue you should have that all
along. But I could also argue that at
the beginning you're just trying to do
something where you don't die. You're
starting to blog. You're probably
copying other people's style. You
probably don't have that much uh unique
things to say. So there's a lot of reg.
That's okay. You're just trying to get
going. It's okay. Now 20 years later if
you have no style and no voice of your
own and nothing new to say that's
probably not good. But to get going,
sure. So um sometimes we have this thing
where we get going with maybe looser I
don't want to say values I'm not saying
it's unethical but like looser sort of
bar or a pride that we have in our own
work and we tighten it up as we're sort
of able um as we can afford to you might
even say so good but that's a then that
becomes a nice filter here of like what
what is it in a greater sense I'm trying
to do here I'm willing to do here. Um,
so if you're not growing your dying,
fair, but like that has to come with
these limits and and the the more
successful you are, the more you can be
serious about those limits.
>> I think an important element of this is
also the product you're currently
working on. Maybe it's okay for it just
to not grow. There's a good opportunity
to do something else, have this thing
maybe running on the side, maybe sunset
it at some point, but it's a good
opportunity to be like, okay, wait, what
else is out there? We had a a recent
podcast conversation with Matt McKinn
McInness uh CPO at Ripling and there's
some really good advice he shared on
just when to quit when to quit your
startup. Just like you know if it's like
four or five years in it's just not
clicking maybe it's time to to move on
and even though people do succeed years
in uh most likely it's not going to be
you. I have a book almost out now that's
on pre-order about topics like what
we've been talking. The next book I want
to write is on this topic of
how do I make these decisions of
uncertainty like maybe it is time to
quit, maybe I should move to a different
city, maybe I should marry this person,
maybe I should launch this company,
maybe it's time to maybe I should use
this strategy where you want to you you
want to use probability and expected
value. It's unlikely that dot dot dot,
right? But the truth is we don't know
what the probability is. We don't know
what the probability curves look like.
We actually can't use expected value.
And anyway, even if you could have
expected value, I am a human being. This
is my life and I either sell the company
or I don't. And so all this stuff about
probability and like that's not that
doesn't apply to me. I need other ways
of of sorting this out. So I guess I
would just say briefly um probability is
not going to work for these decisions.
So that doesn't say what is right. Um,
but it's not that. And so, uh, which is
nice because you can put those tools
down. I'll do some market research to
see if I'll I should sell my company.
Nope. That's not where the answers are.
>> More uh more questions than answers on
that one.
>> Yeah.
>> Um, speaking of the book, um, let's give
you a chance to share what is what
you're working on and when this is
coming out and when where folks can find
it.
>> Sure. So, the book is called Hidden
Multipliers, and you can pre-order it at
hidden multipliers.com, or I guess if
this is out long enough, I'll
you order it, I guess, depending on when
you're listening to this. And it's it's
a lot of stuff kind of like we were
talking about today. Um, these questions
of uh it's called multipliers because
the idea is little things that you can
do or little decisions you can make that
have a huge impact. And like moving the
cancellation rate from 5 to 4%. sounds
small has a huge thing onboarding as
opposed to later used huge thing. So
those are some examples but the book is
is of course full of different kinds of
topics but all of this idea of this
stuff that has such a big impact on
things like revenue and profit. Um, and
either just as you said earlier, either
like either maybe you have never thought
of it that way, so you didn't really you
weren't thinking about it right or yeah,
you you've heard that you say I know,
but your actions don't reflect it. And
so if we go deep enough with examples
and specific things to do, then you can
actually act on on that supposed
knowledge and and and realize those
multipliers.
>> And uh just to remind people, you're all
hidden multipliers.com.
>> Yeah.
>> And there's an S at the end. H h h h h h
h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h m m m m m
m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m
multipliers,
>> right? There's more than one.
>> Many. There's more than one.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Jason, I had other things I wanted to
talk about, but I feel like this
episode's actually going to be stronger
if we just focus on the thing that we've
been talking about, which is unstalling
growth.
So, if we do that, is there anything
else you want to mention or leave
listeners with before we get to a couple
corners and then the lightning round? I
think if you if you tried to find a
common thread throughout all this stuff
about growth, it comes back to the
customer getting value.
And I know we just we already talked
about that, but I think if if there
could be one thing where it would help
solve kind of all of it, it would be
that they really are getting value. your
product actually promises the right
thing and then it actually delivers on
that thing and the customers can onboard
so that they can do the thing and the
customers know they realize that they're
getting the thing and you're measuring
the thing so you know it's increasing um
that is probably if I was an LLM I'd
probably say that's the common thread or
if you know there's many ways that
manifests of course but but but but if
that's your northstar is how are we
actually creating value in the way the
customer values it and their language
and their way and their way of
understanding it. I wouldn't say all the
pieces magically fit into place, but
certainly isn't that sort of the root
thing that that is going to make all the
stuff work then there will be a good way
to do pricing and they will stay as long
as possible and you know like these
things will probably be right if if that
so this idea of creating value for the
customer and split and then figuring how
to split with them is probably the root
idea and of course I hesitate because
platitudes like that are actually not
actionable not very actionable like all
right well I'll move on with my day and
that's why Twitter's not so useful but
given that we've gone into so much
detail. Perhaps that's a nice way of
summarizing it.
>> I think that's such an important point.
I think what's also interesting is some
of your advice is the value may you may
be picking the wrong customer, the wrong
market. You may be positioning it wrong.
So the value may be there. You're just
trying to convince the wrong people
about it.
>> Yeah, there's so many ways to get it
wrong. Uh, right? Because because all
like we said, all these things have to
be right. You just said another one
which is and you have to say it in a way
that when this person hits the homepage,
they know it.
It's true. But do they know that?
>> Just so many things have to go right.
>> What a what a tough job we've got over
here just solving people's problems.
Come on.
>> Well, thanks for growing.
>> So now we will be after this
conversation.
>> Okay. So I'm going to take us to uh a
recurring corner, a recurring segment on
the podcast that I call AI corner.
What's one way that you have discovered
uh using AI in your work or in your life
that might be helpful for folks to hear?
>> There's a lot of data on the internet
and it's often in things like images
which makes it hard to do your own
analysis or plug it in or etc. Come up
with your own models or apply it. But I
found that AI is really good actually
especially Gemini at say you just give
it to it and give a chart to it and say
like make this into a table that I can
paste like literally say that I can
paste into Google Sheets and it will do
it in a way that literally you can copy
and it will actually paste correctly
into Google Sheets and then you can do
stuff. So especially with the book and
and and my articles uh I I I love to use
real data and as whenever I can of
course and um um so I I do that all the
time. So, um I think that kind of
interpretation is uh is very useful. And
so all of a sudden you can get 10
examples of something and test a theory
where before it was kind of just too
hard and you didn't.
>> That's an awesome tip because people
know you can generate all these
infographics with um especially with
with Gemini and Nano Banana and all
these things. Uh that's really cool to
know. You can just feed it. Here's a
here's a chart. Make it make it text.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. I'm going to now take us to
contrarian corner. The question here is
what's something that you believe that
most other people don't?
>> AB testing doesn't work very well and it
doesn't work on most things.
It won't work on strategy or vision or
insights like nothing actually important
to the success of the company. You don't
AB test whether Uber is a good idea.
Um and then even when you do AB test the
details where I agree like sometimes
that can work. What happens is people
will try things like oh I'll just you
know try this verb and that verb and
this ad and that ad and then like oh the
seventh or eighth one I got a positive
result that must be good and what
happens is um you keep doing that you
pick the good best one and then you you
go on and you find another one and pick
the best one and then a year later you
look back and you should be like 50 or
100% better because you've stacked these
things and you look back and like
nothing's different. The conversion
rates are the same as they've always
been. You see what the hell happened?
and I thought I picked the the winner.
And and the answer is in a combination
of the tools not being statistically
accurate, which they're not. And the
fact that you will get false positives
even if the tool is statistically
accurate, means that most of them are
false positives. Even if the tool is 95%
accurate when the thing you're looking
for is rare, which it is in the case of
AB testing, uh it the false positives
are happen more often than the actual
thing happens. And so most of the
results you get are false positives
anyway. So, as a result, this isn't true
of all AB testing, but for mo what most
people do when they just do the sort of
the the mundane AB testing, you can't AB
test the important things and the
details are mostly false positives. So,
it's an enormous waste of time unless
you're incredibly sophisticated. I know
there's special groups that actually are
very sophisticated. Fine. If you're not
doing that, it's sort of like the poker
table. If you don't know who the psy is,
it's you, right? If you don't have all
of this information and and knowledge
about AB testing, then you're the psy.
>> Bam. All right. Uh I will just say that
I have found AB testing useful in my
career. I think it's maybe at a certain
scale when you're just kind of trying to
optimize and continue to grow, you know,
where it's like millions of users like a
percentage gain is like millions of
dollars.
>> True.
>> Most people are not working at that
scale. Most people, right?
>> Yeah. So, just wanted to uh for folks
that find it valuable. That's true.
>> Uh but I love it.
>> However, even so on your on your own
podcast when you were interviewing the
guy from Shopify um and he was saying
how uh maybe a third of the things that
they found with their systems just
disappear. They just magically
disappear.
>> And they're they have a team of 100
people and they're really good at it
>> and like their effects disappear all the
time that so they double check later
whether the whether the immediate effect
goes away because even then,
>> right? I think that was the CTO of
Shopify conversation.
>> Okay. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Sweet. Okay. Worth of memory cuz I
listen to a lot of episodes but I don't
>> such a good one. I love that. Yeah.
Where they leave they leave like a hold
out group essentially and then they just
look back was the effect something that
lasted and most times it didn't.
>> Yeah.
>> There you go. And that's with a lot of
So that's what I mean. If you're doing
that level of stuff,
>> good for you. But if you're not, I don't
know, man.
>> There we go. Well, Jason, uh I'm It's
always a really good sign when I'm just
like I can't wait to get this
conversation out the door and into
people's minds because this there's so
much value here. Uh I'm just uh already
anticipating all the people are going to
reply and just like I had so many ideas
for what to do with my product. Um which
is exactly the goal. And with that we
have reached our very exciting lightning
round. I've got five questions for you.
Are you ready?
>> Boy. Yeah. I mean I don't like talking a
long time anyway. So lightning is great.
>> Here we go. What are two or three books
that you find yourself recommending most
to other people
>> for writing on writing well by William
Zinszer. I know I'm not the only one but
that's kind of the point. um on my best
day I write like that. Um and then for
for uh for product I actually like
crossing the chasm which of course
everyone's heard of but what I find is
no one's read it so that you know the
little picture and you think you know
what the chasm is. What I find is very
quickly I I realized oh you haven't read
the book you saw a blog post and you and
there's so much good stuff in there how
to define a market and really what to do
with this model. It's fantastic. So I
highly recommend reading the book. I've
had a Jeffrey Moore on the podcast. We
dove into a lot of this stuff. One of
the things that always stuck with me is
um when early companies are looking for
someone like them to adopt the thing.
That's something that really stuck with
me. It's not like they're looking for an
early adopter to be like, "Oh, this is
awesome." Like they're looking for
someone that feels like them to say,
"This is great." And so the early
adopters are just going to spread to
other early adopters and there's there's
work to do.
>> Yeah. Part of that's because he defines
a market in among other things as and
the people in the market respect the
opinions of the other people in the
market.
>> Exactly.
>> And that's when you realize, oh, so
jumping to a different market, it's not
impossible. It's just you like like case
studies aren't going to work.
>> Yeah. And then you think, okay, and then
on writing well such a huge run of the
book. That's like the book that most
helped me write. And if you summarize
the book for me, it's just cut. Cut more
and more of your stuff. There's always
to cut. I love this phrase where he's
he's um he's on a panel with with this
guy who is like an amateur writer and
his his kind of summary is to that guy
is I I uh he the guy told him I never
knew writing could be hard and Zenzer
says I never knew writing could be easy.
I think both of those kind of summarize
the the the turmoil of being a writer.
>> Yeah. The classic maybe Hemingway maybe
not quote uh writing is easy. I just sit
at the typewriter and bleed
>> and bleed. Yeah.
>> So good. Okay, moving on. Favorite
recent movie or TV show?
>> Er
from 1994.
15 seasons. Why do I Why do I say that?
Besides the fact I think it's good. I
have a 16-year-old daughter
>> and we have we're now on season I think
13 watching this whole thing. She says
it holds up after 25 years and being you
know gen alpha or whatever. I don't even
know what it is. And so if if this is an
era an era when, you know, shows were an
hour long and seasons were forever and
uh and she says it's great TV, it must
be great TV.
>> Wow. I've not had that on this podcast
yet. Um also The Pit. I don't know if
you enjoy ER, you'll enjoy The Pit,
which just won all these awards.
>> Yep. If it's good
>> on Netflix. Um, fun fact, my cousin was
in ER, not as a recurring character, but
she was like a young girl patient and
now she's a fancy actress in the world.
>> Oh, cool.
>> That was her start.
>> Okay, next question. Favorite product
you've recently discovered that you
really love.
>> Um, this is probably not unique, but
Whisper Flow for dictation. It's really
good. I like the keyboard shortcuts
because it, you know, I just use it all
the time in all the software and
anything anchor makes. you know, they
have like power stations and docks and
recharging
>> over the K.
>> Uh yeah, ANK, right? Um and uh just all
their stuff is super high quality and
works really well. Everything seems to
charge twice as fast when plugged into
an Anchor thing. So, I don't know,
whatever it is, it's really good.
>> I got a new Inker charger. I also love
Anker. Uh that has like a display on the
side when you plug in stuff and it's got
like multiple ports and it shows you
like the percentage it's charging and
the wattage per outlet. I love it.
They're just like, "How do we make this
more fancy and fun and charge more?"
>> Yeah,
>> I love it. Yeah. And then Whisper Flow,
quick shout out. They are uh you get a
year free of Whisperflow by becoming a
uh insider. I think even just an annual
subscriber of my newsletter uh as part
of the product pass. And so uh check it
out. Lenny's product pass.com. You can
also check out
>> I did not know that. I'm not a shill for
them.
>> No, I love that. I love when people
recommend products in the product pass.
A whole
>> because I'm a subscriber for long enough
that I didn't get that.
>> You missed out. You missed out. There's
19 products in there right now. By the
time this comes out, there will be even
more.
>> Okay, two more questions. Do you have a
favorite life motto that you find
yourself coming back to in work or in
life?
>> Yes. Be yourself. Everyone else is
taken.
And it's attributed to Oscar Wild, but
I've tried to look into that as I tried
to get all my annotations correct for
the book. And there's no evidence that
he said it. But there's also no evidence
who said it. So, let's say it's Oscar
Wild because he said lots of things like
that. I love that and it's such a deep
point like you know it's easy to hear
and be like yeah yeah yeah but it's it's
something I've learned to be more and
more true every time especially as you
see people online doing their thing and
just like oh I want to be like that and
then you realize no you got to be
yourself.
>> No and and the people who love you or
like what you do also want you to be
yourself because that's what they love
and if you're changed then they wouldn't
love that. So
>> final question you have this fancy award
behind you on your desk. I'm curious
what's the story there? That's the
Ernstston Young Entrepreneur of the Year
award for 2017 for Central Texas, which
I co-un with the CEO of WP Engine,
Heather Bruner. Uh, which is awesome
because I I often call Heather our a
late joining co-founder because that's
what um LinkedIn that's what Reed
Hoffman called Jeff Weiner because you
know Jeff was like you know four years
in but was so impactful
to everything the success of the company
the culture d that like basically is a
co-founder and that's exactly what
Heather is like at WP Engine. It's now
been 11 years since she she became the
CEO. So, this is a, you know, there's
lots of um data to back this up. And I
and I I used to say to people at the at
WP Engine like if I just told you that
Heather was a co-founder, you'd say,
"Yeah, no, no kidding." I'm like,
"Right, that's what that's why I think
of it that way because so do you. So did
anyone because that that's the impact
she's had." So, we co-win that award,
which is nice because you almost never
have co-winners. In fact, like I I can't
remember another one. I mean, I know
there are others, but there it's rare
enough I can't think of another one. So,
it's really cool that we co-wrun that uh
entrepreneur award.
>> Jason, this was so awesome. I really
appreciate you making time. I really
appreciate you sharing so much wisdom
with us. Uh two final questions. Where
can folks find you online? Point them to
your book, your website, and how can
listeners be useful to you?
>> Yeah, I mean to be useful, order the
book, hidden multipliers.com, or of
course, you don't have to. You can uh I
have all these articles online for free.
So, you can go to asmartbear.com
and I'm on Twitter and other stuff
that's all linked off of that website
and the articles uh they're they're
free. I don't have ads. I don't sell
courses. I don't I don't sell anything.
So, like that's that's very very
non-commercial. Um and so the in fact
the one thing I've ever done with
writing that costs money is the book
because you know it's a physical book.
I've got to charge something so I can
ship it and everything. So, uh um but I
think Hidden Multipliers is is certainly
my best work. So, um so I'm very I'm
very proud of that. But, uh but you
don't have to buy it. It's okay.
>> This is our chance to this is our chance
to repay you for all the free content
you've put out over time, right?
>> And so, I'm going to order a number of
them.
>> Jason, thank you so much for being here.
>> Thank you. This is fun.
>> So fun. Bye, everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.